$ bin/fm-control.sh --help | sed -n "/relaunch   Transactionally/,/A failure before publication/p"
  relaunch   Transactionally replace the running agent with a new one, in the
             SAME worktree - and the same endpoint whenever that endpoint
             still exists - on the same or a newly chosen
             harness/model/effort - so switching harness is one ordinary use
             of this verb. When the recorded endpoint is instead proven gone -
             a Herdr pane destroyed in churn - the launch owner re-creates one
             in that worktree, in the herdr session and workspace the record
             names, after proving that workspace still exists and that no
             other fm-<id> tab can own the task, and the task's record
             rebinds to it. When that workspace was the task's own one-task
             projection and vanished with the pane, the replacement is a
             recreated projection instead, or with presentation now off, a
             flat tab in the projection's recorded parent workspace. That is
             how a task whose terminal was destroyed is reclaimed by the home
             that owns it, rather than being stranded with a parked approval
             nobody can answer. Reclaim is HERDR-ONLY for the reason `exit`
             gives above: a tmux `missing` cannot be proven absent from a
             task record, so it refuses.
             An explicit `default` model or effort clears that
             axis for the replacement. With no explicit axis, a secondmate
             re-resolves its durable config/secondmate-harness pin (harness
             plus its optional model and effort tokens) exactly as any other
             respawn does, while a ship or scout keeps the exact adapter
             already recorded for it.
             A prefixed raw-command basename cannot reconstruct its launch
             command, so relaunch requires an explicit --harness for it.
             A replacement Claude or Pi profile must also pass this home's
             worker account pin (bin/fm-worker-account-lib.sh) here, so a pin
             that no longer resolves or is signed out refuses before the old
             agent stops.
             --note is required for a ship or scout, whose replacement
             inherits the local copy but none of the conversation; a
             secondmate reconciles its own home's records at startup, so its
             standing charter is never rewritten.
             Records a durable checkpoint and that note, exits the old agent,
             then delegates the launch to its single owner,
             bin/fm-spawn.sh --relaunch. If a Herdr pane has disappeared, the
             replacement path recreates one in the recorded workspace, or in
             place of the task's own vanished projection as above, only after
             proving the isolated copy exists and no agent can own the task.
             A failure before publication keeps the prior durable record

$ bin/fm-spawn.sh --help | grep -n -A8 "RE-CREATED"
58-  or herdr), and clears the previous harness's per-task wiring before arming
59-  the new incarnation. Two verdicts are agent-free: a `dead` endpoint is
60:  ADOPTED as-is, while an endpoint PROVEN gone is RE-CREATED in the recorded
61-  worktree and recorded Herdr workspace and the republished record rebinds
62-  the task to it. When that workspace was the task's own one-task projection
63-  and vanished with the pane, the replacement is instead a recreated
64-  projection, or with presentation now off, a flat tab in the projection's
65-  recorded parent workspace. The absence proof is its own step, because a
66-  backend's `missing` also covers an endpoint that is merely unreachable from
67-  here - and it is only available on HERDR, which must still read the
68-  recorded pane as gone once that session's server is running again. A tmux
69-  `missing` always refuses: a task record carries no socket identity for its
70-  endpoint, so no read here can tell a destroyed window from one on a tmux
